Israel's military says that it has found
the bodies of three Israeli hostages in
Gaza among them the German Israeli
Shaunie luk her body was seen in the
back of a pickup truck in videos from
the October 7th terrorist attack she was
later declared dead after skull
fragments were found a military
spokesman said that the three hostages
that they were killed by Hamas at the
Nova music festival and then their body
were taken across the border into
Gaza here's more now from the Israeli
spokesman earlier
today they were celebrating life in the
Nova music festival and they were
murdered by
Kamas their bodies were transferred to
Medical Professional for forensic
examination and
identification after the procedure was
completed we notified their families
our hearts go out to
them tww special correspondent Aya
Ibrahim in Jerusalem has
more so we know that uh their remains
were recovered in an overnight operation
that's according to the Israeli uh
military spokesperson Daniel hagari who
we've also just heard uh uh from Shany
Luke as you mentioned a dual Israeli uh
German uh National um she had been
presumed dead for a while now uh as as
as the Israeli military had previously
found a part of her skull that was
identified uh but the other two a young
woman in her late 20s and a a man in his
early 50s there hadn't really been any
signs of life from them since they were
taken on October 7th so of course there
was some hope that they might be
exchanged uh in a deal with Hamas that
they might be released or might be found
it's a devastating devastating news news
for the families of the hostages of
course but really for the entire uh
country this news coming uh this uh uh
uh Shabbat afternoon as every as as life
here in Israel winds down for the day of
rest we've also heard for the from the
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu I'm just going to read to you
the statement that they just put out he
said this terrible loss is heartbreaking
and that him and his wife Sarah are
grieving um he also said that they that
we will return all of our hostages the
living and the deceased alike this is
likely to cause more anger tomorrow uh
in the weekly protests that have been
taking place calling on the Israeli
government to reach a deal uh to return
the hostages alive to their loved ones
and with this news this is likely uh to
cause a lot of anger uh tomorrow here in
Israel yeah definitely the news that
people in Israel did not want to hear
this Friday our special correspondent a
Ibrahim in Jerusalem tonight ya thank
you
Israel has rejected accusations that it
is committing genocide in Gaza it
wrapped up its defense today at the
international court of justice in the
hay South Africa has asked the top un
Court to order Israel to stop its
offensive in Rafa now this hearing this
week is part of a broader case accusing
Israel of committing genocide in Gaza
which Israel has repeatedly denied
Israel calls the case a distortion of
reality
lawyers representing South Africa made a
series of allegations on Thursday
including accusing Israel of withholding
humanitarian Aid Israel has denied doing
that as well would not delayed well for
more I'm joined Now by Michael link he
is the former un special reporter on
human rights in the Palestinian
territory he's also an associate
professor of law at the University of
Western Ontario in London Ontario Canada
Professor it's good to see you again I I
know you've been following what's going
on in in the Court South Africa and
Israel they've now presented their signs
in your professional opinion which side
delivered the most convincing
argument well well uh probably a a good
answer to uh to your question is who
which side presented more independent
expert um uh evidence with respect to
what they were claiming South Africa and
on Thursday made arguments uh that
Israel's uh genocide was continuing that
more stronger provisional measures were
needed and it relied upon um I guess
statements made by un uh leaders and by
um International Aid organizations that
were that have been involved in trying
to get Aid into Gaza and their
pronouncements have been that there's a
famine that's already broken out in the
north of Gaza where there is somewhere
between three and 400,000 Palestinians
and that Aid was very difficult to get
Aid into the south of G of where 1.7 or
1.8 million Palestinians are are huddled
um Israel in its arguments today uh
asserted that it was making remarkable
efforts to improve Aid delivery into
Gaza but it couldn't site and didn't
site any of the UN statements or any of
the international organization
statements and that's the kind of
evidence that the court wants to hear
that there are reliable sources or
coming from particularly at the icj
coming from the United Nations
uh to be able to make a finding with
respect to that uh South Africa had that
kind of evidence Israel did not so let's
take this into the next step the the
judges will now deliberate on the
request from South Africa they're
expected to issue a decision in the next
few weeks um let's assume they rule in
favor of South Africa that they Grant
this request um Can the icj really
prevent any further Israeli military
action in Gaza I mean is there any teeth
to what the Court
decides well yes and no yes the the um
provisional measures that the court
would wind up ordering um are legally
binding on on all parties um uh to the
issue in front of them at the court but
you're absolutely right um the the icj
has no police it has no Army it has no
ability to issue warrants it would be
Reliant upon the um un Security Council
and we know that Israel has a strong
alliance with the United States which
has already issued five vetos uh since
the War Began in October um in defense
of uh of Israel and even the one
resolution which at the security Council
which the United States allowed to go
through calling for a ceasefire during
the weeks of Ramadan um Israel did not
obey that uh that resolution and the
United States and the security Council
took no steps to to enforce it um but I
should say that uh if the court does
issue and a provisional order demanding
an immediate uh ceasefire mean that
would be a tremendous symbolic uh loss
to uh to Israel it would further sink I
think it's it's already faltering
International reputation um in the
International Community uh regarding how
it's conducted this war so it has a
certain symbolic importance even if it
can't be enforced militarily or
politically and is that the power of of
the court especially in this case
because Israel has made it clear it is
it's not planning to stop it's offensive
in Rafa anytime soon so is it the
symbolic meaning here that the world
will be
remembering well I think it will be I
mean I'm when I think this war is
finally over and we begin to look at who
are the winners and losers even if
Israel is U victoriously victorious
militarily in terms of decapitating
Hamas politic
or militarily its reputation will have
taken a significant blow I think given
the utter destruction that's occurred in
uh in Gaza and the huge loss of of uh of
human life remember Israel had an
enormous amount of sympathy on its side
in the first days and weeks after the uh
terror attack on October 7th but that
all that has dissipated and more and it
can really um it is very hard to think
of that those few handful of countries
who are still standing beside Israel
after s months of this war Professor
Michael link we appreciate your time and
your valuable analysis tonight thank
you thank you very much for having me